## NIP-65

Either the [Event Builder](https://docs.rs/nostr/latest/nostr/event/builder/struct.EventBuilder.html) struct and associated `relay_list()` function, or, the [Tag](https://docs.rs/nostr/latest/nostr/event/tag/struct.Tag.html) struct and associated `relay_metadata()` function, can be used to construct NIP-65 compliant events (`kind:10002`), which are designed to advertise user's preferred relays from which content can be retrieved and/or published.

### Relay List Metadata (NIP-65)

<custom-tabs category="lang">

<div slot="title">Rust</div>
<section>

TODO

</section>

<div slot="title">Python</div>
<section>

The simpleist way to create relay metadata events is via the `relay_list()` method and `EventBuilder` class. To do this we pass the method a dictionary containing the relay URL (key) and READ/WRITE (value), which is set using the `RelayMetadata` class.

Note that where no read or write value is specified (e.g. `None`), these should be handled as both read and write by clients (as indicated in the NIP-65 specification).

```python,ignore
{{#include ../../snippets/nostr/python/src/nip65.py:relay-metadata-simple}}
```

As an alternative approach, the `Tag` class and `relay_metadata()` method can be used to create individual tag objects for inclusion in a purpose built `kind:10002` event. 

```python,ignore
{{#include ../../snippets/nostr/python/src/nip65.py:relay-metadata-custom}}
```

</section>

<div slot="title">JavaScript</div>
<section>

The simpleist way to create relay metadata events is via the `relayList()` method and `EventBuilder` class. To do this we can simply use the `RelayListItem` class to create a list of relay objects containing the relay URL and READ/WRITE, which is set using the `RelayMetadata` class.

Note that where no read or write value is specified (e.g. `null`), these should be handled as both read and write by clients (as indicated in the NIP-65 specification).

```javascript,ignore
{{#include ../../snippets/nostr/js/src/nip65.js:relay-metadata-simple}}
```

As an alternative approach, the `Tag` class and `relayMetadata()` method can be used to create individual tag objects for inclusion in a purpose built `kind:10002` event. 

```javascript,ignore
{{#include ../../snippets/nostr/js/src/nip65.js:relay-metadata-custom}}
```

</section>

<div slot="title">Kotlin</div>
<section>

TODO

</section>

<div slot="title">Swift</div>
<section>

TODO

</section>
</custom-tabs>