## NIP-06

In accordance with the [Bitcoin Improvement Proposal 0039 (BIP-39)](https://github.com/bitcoin/bips/blob/master/bip-0039.mediawiki) we can derive Nostr keys using seed phrases as a source of entropy. 
This is handled by the [FromMnemonic](https://docs.rs/nostr/latest/nostr/nips/nip06/trait.FromMnemonic.html) Trait and its associated methods.

The default functionality is to generate a single key-pair at the derivation path `0`. 
However, it is also possible to perform more advanced derivations by incrementing the `account`, 
enabling generation of many sets of keys from a single seed.

For more examples of key generation please refer back to the [Keys section](03-keys.md) of this book.

### Key derivation from mnemonic seed phrase (NIP-06)

<custom-tabs category="lang">

<div slot="title">Rust</div>
<section>

TODO

</section>

<div slot="title">Python</div>
<section>

Using the `from_mnemonic()` method in conjunction with the `Keys` class to derived a basic set of Nostr keys from a 24 word seed phrase.

Note that this example uses the `Mnemonic` class from the [python-mnemonic](https://github.com/trezor/python-mnemonic) package (the reference implementation of BIP-39) to randomly generate example seed phrases.

```python,ignore
{{#include ../../snippets/nostr/python/src/nip06.py:keys-from-seed24}}
```

As well as deriving basic keys from a 24 word seed we can also use seed phrases of other lengths such as 18 words or, as in this example, 12 words.

```python,ignore
{{#include ../../snippets/nostr/python/src/nip06.py:keys-from-seed12}}
```

Advanced key derivation functionality (for accounts) can be accessed by the `from_mnemonic()` method. 
To do this we use the `account` argument which accepts an integer to specify the derivation path.

```python,ignore
{{#include ../../snippets/nostr/python/src/nip06.py:keys-from-seed-accounts}}
```

This final example utilizes the same seed as for the previous example, but also includes a `passphrase`. 
It illustrates the effect of inclusion of a passphrase on the key derivation.

```python,ignore
{{#include ../../snippets/nostr/python/src/nip06.py:keys-from-seed-accounts-pass}}
```

</section>

<div slot="title">JavaScript</div>
<section>

Using the `fromMnemonic()` method in conjunction with the `Keys` class to derived a basic set of Nostr keys from a 24 word seed phrase.

Note that this example uses the `generateMnemonic()` method from the [bip39](https://github.com/bitcoinjs/bip39) package, a commonly used JavaScript implementation of Bitcoin BIP39, to randomly generate example seed phrases.

```python,ignore
{{#include ../../snippets/nostr/js/src/nip06.js:keys-from-seed24}}
```

As well as deriving basic keys from a 24 word seed we can also use seed phrases of other lengths such as 18 words or, as in this example, 12 words.

```python,ignore
{{#include ../../snippets/nostr/js/src/nip06.js:keys-from-seed12}}
```

Advanced key derivation functionality (for accounts) can be accessed by the `fromMnemonic()` method. 
To do this we use the `account` argument which accepts an integer to specify the derivation path.

```python,ignore
{{#include ../../snippets/nostr/js/src/nip06.js:keys-from-seed-accounts}}
```

This final example utilizes the same seed as for the previous example, but also includes a `passphrase`. 
It illustrates the effect of inclusion of a passphrase on the key derivation.

```python,ignore
{{#include ../../snippets/nostr/js/src/nip06.js:keys-from-seed-accounts-pass}}
```

</section>

<div slot="title">Kotlin</div>
<section>

TODO

</section>

<div slot="title">Swift</div>
<section>

TODO

</section>
</custom-tabs>